irc, config: config options for flood penalty on longer messages (#1929)
sopel-irc/sopel: docs/source/configuration.rst

----------------

In order to avoid flooding the server, Sopel has a built-in flood prevention
mechanism. The flood burst limit can be controlled with these directives:

* :attr:`~CoreSection.flood_burst_lines`: the number of messages
  that can be sent before triggering the throttle mechanism.
* :attr:`~CoreSection.flood_refill_rate`: how much time (in seconds) must be
  spent before recovering flood limit.

The wait time when the flood limit is reached can be controlled with these:

* :attr:`~CoreSection.flood_empty_wait`: time to wait once burst limit has been
  reached before sending a new message.

> * :attr:`~CoreSection.flood_max_wait`: maximum time to wait once burst limit
>   has been reached before sending a new message. This limit includes the extra
>   penalty for longer messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :attr:`~CoreSection.flood_max_wait`: absolute maximum time to wait before
  sending a new message once the burst limit has been reached.
```

I just think it's clearer to say this is an "absolute maximum", rather than referencing a concept not yet described ("extra penalty for longer messages").

Author: Tbh I was kind of annoyed that I had to talk about extra penalty here before it was defined. So it's a good thing.

And the extra wait penalty for longer messages can be controlled with these:

> * :attr:`~CoreSection.flood_text_length`: maximum size of messages before they
>   start getting an extra wait penalty
> * :attr:`~CoreSection.flood_penalty_ratio`: ratio used to compute said penalty

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :attr:`~CoreSection.flood_text_length`: maximum size of messages before they
  start getting an extra wait penalty.
* :attr:`~CoreSection.flood_penalty_ratio`: ratio used to compute said penalty.
```

The preceding two list blocks have periods at the ends, so this one should too. 😛

it'll wait 0.5s before sending a new message, and refill the burst limit every
2 seconds.

The wait time **cannot be longer** than :attr:`~CoreSection.flood_max_wait` (2s
by default). This maximum wait time includes any potential extra penalty for
longer messages.

Messages that are longer than :attr:`~CoreSection.flood_text_length` get an
extra wait penalty. The penalty is computed using a penalty ratio (controlled
by :attr:`~CoreSection.flood_penalty_ratio`, which is 1.4 by default)::

    length_overflow = max(0, (len(text) - flood_text_length))
    extra_penalty = length_overflow / (flood_text_length * flood_penalty_ratio)

For example with a message of 80 characters, the added extra penalty will be::

    length_overflow = max(0, 80 - 50)  # == 30
    extra_penalty = 30 / (50 * 1.4)  # == 0.428s (approximately)

With the default configuration, it means a minimum wait time of 0.928s before
sending any new message (0.5s + 0.428s).

You can **deactivate** this extra wait penalty by setting

> :attr:`~CoreSection.flood_penalty_ratio` to 0 (or less).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:attr:`~CoreSection.flood_penalty_ratio` to 0.
```

Just one documented value to turn it off, I say. Saves us trouble down the road on the off chance that a negative value becomes useful for some new feature related to this.

The default configuration works fine with most tested networks, but individual
bots' owners are invited to tweak as necessary to respect their network's flood
policy.

.. versionadded:: 7.0

>     Flood prevention has been modified in Sopel 7.0 and these configuration
>     options have been added: ``flood_burst_lines``, ``flood_empty_wait``, and
>     ``flood_refill_rate``.
> 
> .. versionadded:: 7.1
> 
>     Even more options have been added in Sopel 7.1: ``flood_max_wait``,
>     ``flood_text_length``, and ``flood_penalty_ratio``.
> 
>     It is now possible to deactivate the extra penalty for longer messages by
>     setting ``flood_penalty_ratio`` to 0.

Reviewer: Mentioning the version again in the body text of a `versionadded` block is redundant.

```suggestion
    Additional configuration options: ``flood_burst_lines``, ``flood_empty_wait``,
    and ``flood_refill_rate``.

.. versionadded:: 7.1

    Even more additional configuration options: ``flood_max_wait``,
    ``flood_text_length``, and ``flood_penalty_ratio``.

    It is now possible to deactivate the extra penalty for longer messages by
    setting ``flood_penalty_ratio`` to 0.
```

.. note::

>     ``@dgw`` said once about flood protection logic:

Reviewer: 🤣

```suggestion
    ``@dgw`` said once about Sopel's flood protection logic:
```
